docs/content/docs/development/authoring-a-bundle/using-templates.md, before:

---
title: Templates
description: How to use templates inside porter.yaml
weight: 4
aliases:
  - /wiring/
---

Porter supports templates in the action steps of porter.yaml and can perform variable substitution.
Templates are surrounded by a dollar sign curly brace delimiter, `${ template here }`.

Starting in Porter v1.0.0-beta.2, templating does not require surrounding quotes and can now substitute in non-string variables, such as booleans and numbers.

## Variables

Variables are grouped by the source of its data:

- [installation](#installation)
- [bundle](#bundle)
  - [bundle.custom](#custom-metadata)
  - [bundle.parameters](#parameters)
  - [bundle.credentials](#credentials)
  - [bundle.outputs](#outputs)
  - [bundle.dependencies](#dependencies)
  - [bundle.images](#images)
- [env](#env)

### installation

The installation variable contains data related to the execution of the bundle.

| Variable               | Description                        |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| installation.name      | The name of the installation.      |
| installation.namespace | The namespace of the installation. |

In the example below, we install a helm chart and set the release name to the installation name of the bundle:

```yaml
install:
  helm3:
    description: Install myapp
    name: ${ installation.name }
    chart: charts/myapp
```

In the next example, we install some kubernetes resources using the namespace of the bundle:

```yaml
install:
  kubernetes:
    description: Install myapp
    namespace: ${ installation.namespace }
    manifests:
      - manifests
```

### bundle

The bundle variable contains data that was declared in the bundle definition (porter.yaml).

| Variable              | Description                               |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| bundle.name           | The bundle name                           |
| bundle.description    | The bundle description                    |
| bundle.version        | The bundle version defined in porter.yaml |
| bundle.installerImage | The name of the bundle installer image    |

#### custom metadata

The bundle.custom variable contains data that was declared in the bundle's [custom metadata] section.
Nested data can be accessed via `bundle.custom.KEY.SUBKEY` variable.

Here is an example porter.yaml that defines custom metadata and uses it in an action.

```yaml
custom:
  chart:
    name: "mychart"
    version: "0.2.0"

install:
  - helm3:
      description: "Install my chart"
      name: ${ installation.name }
      chart: ${ bundle.custom.chart.name }
      version: "${ bundle.custom.chart.version }"
      namespace: "myNamespace"
```

[custom metadata]: /docs/bundle/manifest/#custom

#### parameters

The bundle.parameters variable contains the values of parameters passed into the bundle.

Here is an example porter.yaml that defines a parameter and uses it in an action:

```yaml
parameters:
  - name: namespace
    type: string
    env: RELEASE_NAMESPACE

install:
  - helm3:
      description: "Install my chart"
      name: "myRelease"
      chart: "myChart"
      version: "1.2.3"
      namespace: ${ bundle.parameters.namespace }
```

#### credentials

The bundle.credentials variable contains the values of credentials passed into the bundle.

Here is an example porter.yaml that defines a credential and uses it in an action:

```yaml
parameters:
  - name: database-password
    type: string
    env: MYSQL_PASSWORD

install:
  - helm3:
      description: "Install my chart"
      name: "myRelease"
      chart: "myChart"
      version: "1.2.3"
      namespace: "myNamespace"
      set:
        mysql-password: ${ bundle.credentials.database-password }
```

#### outputs

The bundle.outputs variable contains the values of outputs generated by the bundle.

Here is an example porter.yaml that generates an output during a step and uses it in the next step:

```yaml
install:
  - exec:
      description: "Generate username"
      command: ./helpers.sh
      arguments:
        - generateUsername
      outputs:
        - name: username
          regex: "(.*)" # Capture all of stdout
  - helm3:
      description: "Install my chart"
      name: "myRelease"
      chart: "myChart"
      version: "1.2.3"
      namespace: "myNamespace"
      set:
        wordpress-username: ${ bundle.outputs.username }
```

#### dependencies

The bundle.dependencies variable contains metadata for the bundle's dependencies.

| Variable                             | Description                                                                                            |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| bundle.dependencies.NAME.name        | The bundle name of the dependency.                                                                     |
| bundle.dependencies.NAME.description | The bundle description of the dependency.                                                              |
| bundle.dependencies.NAME.version     | The bundle version of the dependency. This is a semver v2 value, and will not have a leading v prefix. |

Outputs are also available, and the format for the dependency outputs variable is `bundle.dependencies.NAME.outputs.OUTPUT`.

Here is an example porter.yaml that has a dependency and uses an output generated by that dependency in an action:

```yaml
dependencies:
  requires:
    - name: mysql
      bundle:
        reference: getporter/mysql:v0.1.3

install:
  - helm3:
      description: "Install my chart"
      name: "myRelease"
      chart: "myChart"
      version: "1.2.3"
      namespace: "myNamespace"
      set:
        database-password: ${ bundle.dependencies.mysql.outputs.mysql-password }
```

##### Dependencies v2 (experimental)

The second version of dependencies, called DependenciesV2, is available under the
[**experimental** flag](https://porter.sh/docs/configuration/configuration/#experimental-feature-flags).

You can enable the experimental flag by setting an environment variable as follows:

```
PORTER_EXPERIMENTAL=dependencies-v2
```

When DependenciesV2 is enabled, it is possible to use templating inside the dependency output section, like this:

```yaml
dependencies:
  requires:
    - name: mysql
      bundle:
        reference: getporter/mysql:v0.1.3
        outputs:
          connection-string: "Server=mysql;Database=myDb;Uid=${bundle.parameters.uid};Pwd=${bundles.dependencies.mysql.mysql-password};"
```

If referencing an output from the same dependency, the format `outputs.OUTPUT_NAME` can also be used.

```yaml
dependencies:
  requires:
    - name: mysql
      bundle:
        reference: getporter/mysql:v0.1.3
        outputs:
          connection-string: "Server=mysql;Database=myDb;Uid=${bundle.parameters.uid};Pwd=${outputs.mysql-password};"
```

#### images

The bundle.images variable contains metadata about [referenced images] in the bundle.

Here is an example porter.yaml that declares a referenced image. This enables relocating any referenced images when the bundle is published to a different registry.
The bundle uses the bundle.images variable to tell Helm where to find the image.
In this example, the Helm chart must have already exposed the image as a variable.

```yaml
images:
  mysql:
    description: "A mysql server"
    imageType: "docker"
    repository: "getporter/mysql"
    digest: "sha256:85b1a9b4b60a4cf73a23517dad677e64edf467107fa7d58fce9c50e6a3e4c914"

install:
  - helm3:
      description: "Install my chart"
      name: "mysqlServer"
      chart: "mysql"
      version: "1.2.3"
      namespace: "myNameespace"
      set:
        image: ${bundle.images.mysql.repository}@${bundle.images.mysql.digest}
```

When an image tag is provided instead of a digest, Porter gets the latest
image digest for the specified tag and then update the bundle to reference the image
by digest instead of the provided tag. This helps to ensure deterministic and
repeatable bundle execution.

[referenced images]: /docs/bundle/manifest/#images

### env

The env variable contains environment variables.
The environment variable name is case sensitive.

```yaml
install:
  - exec:
      description: "Access environment variables"
      command: ./helpers/login.sh
      arguments:
        - ${ env.CNAB_REVISION }
```

[mustache]: https://mustache.github.io/

Commit message:

Add installation.id template var and PORTER_INSTALLATION_ID env var (#3549)
* feat: add installation.id template var

Expose installation UUID as PORTER_INSTALLATION_ID env var
and installation.id template variable, giving bundles a
globally unique value for resource naming.

Closes #2006

Signed-off-by: Kim Christensen <kimworking@gmail.com>

* docs: document installation.id template variable

Add installation.id and PORTER_INSTALLATION_ID to the template
and wiring docs. Clarify it is stable within an installation's
lifecycle but changes if the installation is recreated.

Signed-off-by: Kim Christensen <kimworking@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Kim Christensen <kimworking@gmail.com>

docs/content/docs/development/authoring-a-bundle/using-templates.md, after:

---
title: Templates
description: How to use templates inside porter.yaml
weight: 4
aliases:
  - /wiring/
---

Porter supports templates in the action steps of porter.yaml and can perform variable substitution.
Templates are surrounded by a dollar sign curly brace delimiter, `${ template here }`.

Starting in Porter v1.0.0-beta.2, templating does not require surrounding quotes and can now substitute in non-string variables, such as booleans and numbers.

## Variables

Variables are grouped by the source of its data:

- [installation](#installation)
- [bundle](#bundle)
  - [bundle.custom](#custom-metadata)
  - [bundle.parameters](#parameters)
  - [bundle.credentials](#credentials)
  - [bundle.outputs](#outputs)
  - [bundle.dependencies](#dependencies)
  - [bundle.images](#images)
- [env](#env)

### installation

The installation variable contains data related to the execution of the bundle.

| Variable               | Description                                                                           |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| installation.name      | The name of the installation.                                                         |
| installation.namespace | The namespace of the installation.                                                    |
| installation.id        | A globally unique identifier for the installation, suitable for naming cloud resources. |

In the example below, we install a helm chart and set the release name to the installation name of the bundle:

```yaml
install:
  helm3:
    description: Install myapp
    name: ${ installation.name }
    chart: charts/myapp
```

In the next example, we install some kubernetes resources using the namespace of the bundle:

```yaml
install:
  kubernetes:
    description: Install myapp
    namespace: ${ installation.namespace }
    manifests:
      - manifests
```

Use `installation.id` when you need a value that is globally unique across Porter data stores and namespaces, for example to tag cloud resources so they can be traced back to a specific installation:

```yaml
install:
  exec:
    description: Create storage account
    command: az
    arguments:
      - storage
      - account
      - create
      - --name
      - myapp-storage
      - --tags
      - porter-installation-id=${ installation.id }
```

The ID is stable across all runs of the same installation record (install, upgrade, uninstall).
It changes only if the installation is deleted and recreated.
The `PORTER_INSTALLATION_ID` environment variable provides the same value for use in scripts.

### bundle

The bundle variable contains data that was declared in the bundle definition (porter.yaml).

| Variable              | Description                               |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| bundle.name           | The bundle name                           |
| bundle.description    | The bundle description                    |
| bundle.version        | The bundle version defined in porter.yaml |
| bundle.installerImage | The name of the bundle installer image    |

#### custom metadata

The bundle.custom variable contains data that was declared in the bundle's [custom metadata] section.
Nested data can be accessed via `bundle.custom.KEY.SUBKEY` variable.

Here is an example porter.yaml that defines custom metadata and uses it in an action.

```yaml
custom:
  chart:
    name: "mychart"
    version: "0.2.0"

install:
  - helm3:
      description: "Install my chart"
      name: ${ installation.name }
      chart: ${ bundle.custom.chart.name }
      version: "${ bundle.custom.chart.version }"
      namespace: "myNamespace"
```

[custom metadata]: /docs/bundle/manifest/#custom

#### parameters

The bundle.parameters variable contains the values of parameters passed into the bundle.

Here is an example porter.yaml that defines a parameter and uses it in an action:

```yaml
parameters:
  - name: namespace
    type: string
    env: RELEASE_NAMESPACE

install:
  - helm3:
      description: "Install my chart"
      name: "myRelease"
      chart: "myChart"
      version: "1.2.3"
      namespace: ${ bundle.parameters.namespace }
```

#### credentials

The bundle.credentials variable contains the values of credentials passed into the bundle.

Here is an example porter.yaml that defines a credential and uses it in an action:

```yaml
parameters:
  - name: database-password
    type: string
    env: MYSQL_PASSWORD

install:
  - helm3:
      description: "Install my chart"
      name: "myRelease"
      chart: "myChart"
      version: "1.2.3"
      namespace: "myNamespace"
      set:
        mysql-password: ${ bundle.credentials.database-password }
```

#### outputs

The bundle.outputs variable contains the values of outputs generated by the bundle.

Here is an example porter.yaml that generates an output during a step and uses it in the next step:

```yaml
install:
  - exec:
      description: "Generate username"
      command: ./helpers.sh
      arguments:
        - generateUsername
      outputs:
        - name: username
          regex: "(.*)" # Capture all of stdout
  - helm3:
      description: "Install my chart"
      name: "myRelease"
      chart: "myChart"
      version: "1.2.3"
      namespace: "myNamespace"
      set:
        wordpress-username: ${ bundle.outputs.username }
```

#### dependencies

The bundle.dependencies variable contains metadata for the bundle's dependencies.

| Variable                             | Description                                                                                            |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| bundle.dependencies.NAME.name        | The bundle name of the dependency.                                                                     |
| bundle.dependencies.NAME.description | The bundle description of the dependency.                                                              |
| bundle.dependencies.NAME.version     | The bundle version of the dependency. This is a semver v2 value, and will not have a leading v prefix. |

Outputs are also available, and the format for the dependency outputs variable is `bundle.dependencies.NAME.outputs.OUTPUT`.

Here is an example porter.yaml that has a dependency and uses an output generated by that dependency in an action:

```yaml
dependencies:
  requires:
    - name: mysql
      bundle:
        reference: getporter/mysql:v0.1.3

install:
  - helm3:
      description: "Install my chart"
      name: "myRelease"
      chart: "myChart"
      version: "1.2.3"
      namespace: "myNamespace"
      set:
        database-password: ${ bundle.dependencies.mysql.outputs.mysql-password }
```

##### Dependencies v2 (experimental)

The second version of dependencies, called DependenciesV2, is available under the
[**experimental** flag](https://porter.sh/docs/configuration/configuration/#experimental-feature-flags).

You can enable the experimental flag by setting an environment variable as follows:

```
PORTER_EXPERIMENTAL=dependencies-v2
```

When DependenciesV2 is enabled, it is possible to use templating inside the dependency output section, like this:

```yaml
dependencies:
  requires:
    - name: mysql
      bundle:
        reference: getporter/mysql:v0.1.3
        outputs:
          connection-string: "Server=mysql;Database=myDb;Uid=${bundle.parameters.uid};Pwd=${bundles.dependencies.mysql.mysql-password};"
```

If referencing an output from the same dependency, the format `outputs.OUTPUT_NAME` can also be used.

```yaml
dependencies:
  requires:
    - name: mysql
      bundle:
        reference: getporter/mysql:v0.1.3
        outputs:
          connection-string: "Server=mysql;Database=myDb;Uid=${bundle.parameters.uid};Pwd=${outputs.mysql-password};"
```

#### images

The bundle.images variable contains metadata about [referenced images] in the bundle.

Here is an example porter.yaml that declares a referenced image. This enables relocating any referenced images when the bundle is published to a different registry.
The bundle uses the bundle.images variable to tell Helm where to find the image.
In this example, the Helm chart must have already exposed the image as a variable.

```yaml
images:
  mysql:
    description: "A mysql server"
    imageType: "docker"
    repository: "getporter/mysql"
    digest: "sha256:85b1a9b4b60a4cf73a23517dad677e64edf467107fa7d58fce9c50e6a3e4c914"

install:
  - helm3:
      description: "Install my chart"
      name: "mysqlServer"
      chart: "mysql"
      version: "1.2.3"
      namespace: "myNameespace"
      set:
        image: ${bundle.images.mysql.repository}@${bundle.images.mysql.digest}
```

When an image tag is provided instead of a digest, Porter gets the latest
image digest for the specified tag and then update the bundle to reference the image
by digest instead of the provided tag. This helps to ensure deterministic and
repeatable bundle execution.

[referenced images]: /docs/bundle/manifest/#images

### env

The env variable contains environment variables.
The environment variable name is case sensitive.

```yaml
install:
  - exec:
      description: "Access environment variables"
      command: ./helpers/login.sh
      arguments:
        - ${ env.CNAB_REVISION }
```

[mustache]: https://mustache.github.io/
